# bioinformatics_research_datas
The data and materials that I used during the research assistant in Hanyang University

# TwoMOD
MODa algorithm is the algorithm for peptide identification from MS/MS data based on dynamic programming. 
There are two versions for MODa. First one is OneMOD which allows only less than one PTM, and the another one is MultiMOD which allows arbitrary number of PTMs. The 99% of peptide identified from MultiMOD has less than 2 PTMs.  In this paper, we proposed the novel version of MODa - TwoMOD, which allows identifying the peptide that has less than 2-PTMs. We improved the time complexity from  to  comparing with MultiMOD. In the experiment, the running time has been improved about 30%, and we successfully identified the peptides which has less than 2 PTMs.

# Shotgun proteomics data analysis using personalized protein sequence database built from RNA-seq results from the same sample
Results from data analysis of shotgun proteomics depend on the protein sequence database searched for
LC-MS/MS spectra. With the availability of faster and cheaper next generation sequencing, a personalized
protein database can be made readily available. We expect such a sample-specific protein sequence
database to provide proteomic level evidence more specific to each individual, if the shotgun proteomics
data obtained from the same individual is searched against the personalized database.
Given a paired data sets of RNA-seq and shotgun proteomics from the same matched samples of cancer
and normal tissues, we first construct a personalized protein sequence database consisting of expressed
proteins and variant peptides.
Expressed proteins are derived from mapping RNA-seq reads from each sample to the reference genome
and calculating expression levels of each transcript. Unexpressed or low-abundance transcripts are
excluded from the expressed proteins, therefore, the size of personalized database is much smaller than a
reference protein database such as UniProt.
Variant peptides are generated by considering all SNVs in coding regions. When an SNV is called for a
stop codon, translation is extended beyond the original termination position, only until the next stop codon
is found and while read counts at the translated positions are sufficiently high.
Blind modification search using MODa was conducted with both personalized databases and Uniprot. Our
results show that the search against personalized database is more effective while it is much smaller than
Uniprot. In addition, the personalized database search identified new post-translational modification sites,
dentified only in tumor samples.
